---
title: 'OmpSs-2@Cluster: Distributed memory execution of nested OpenMP-style tasks'
tags:
  - OmpSs-2
  - Task
  - Cluster
  - Programming Model
  - Runtime
  - Multi-threading
authors:
  - name: Jimmy Aguilar Mena
    orcid: 0000-0001-6802-2247
    corresponding: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Omar Shaaban
    orcid: 0000-0003-4410-5317
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Vicenc Beltran
    orcid: 0000-0002-3580-9630
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Paul Carpenter
    orcid: 0000-0002-9392-0521
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Eduard Ayguade
    orcid: 0000-0002-5146-103X
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Jesus Labarta Mancho
    orcid: 0000-0002-7489-4727
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: 1
affiliations:
  - name: Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Spain
    index: 1
date: 25 June 2022
bibliography: paper.bib
---

<!-- From 250-1000 words -->

<!-- A summary describing the high-level functionality and purpose of
the software for a diverse, non-specialist audience. -->

<!-- A Statement of need section that clearly illustrates the research
purpose of the software and places it in the context of related
work. -->

<!-- A list of key references, including to other software addressing
related needs. Note that the references should include full names of
venues, e.g., journals and conferences, not abbreviations only
understood in the context of a specific discipline. -->

<!-- Mention (if applicable) a representative set of past or ongoing
research projects using the software and recent scholarly publications
enabled by it. -->

<!-- Acknowledgement of any financial support. -->

# Summary

State-of-the-art programming approaches generally have a strict
division between intra-node shared memory parallelism and inter-node
MPI communication.  Tasking with dependencies offers a clean,
dependable abstraction for a wide range of hardware and situations
within a node, but research on task offloading between nodes is still
relatively immature.

[OmpSs-2@Clusters](https://github.com/bsc-pm/ompss-2-cluster-releases)
is the evolution of the
[OmpSs](https://pm.bsc.es/ftp/ompss-2/doc/spec/) task based
programming model and the [nanos6](https://github.com/bsc-pm/nanos6)
runtime implementation for distributed memory processes (DMP) system.
This artifact [@Aguilar2022Artifact] includes how to reproduce the
scalability results in the main paper with the same title.  The whole
artifact includes an **Overview.pdf** document with a detailed
description of the actions to perform and a bash script
**artifact.sh** to automatize the basic build and execution steps,
process the results and construct performance scalability graphs.

# Statement of need

Task based parallel computing programming models are an evolving
research field with multiple and expanding applications in the every
time more complex High Performance Computing (HPC) architectures. As
[OmpSs-2@Clusters](https://github.com/bsc-pm/ompss-2-cluster-releases)
is a new programming model there is not much documentation available
about the installation, Advanced Programming Interface (API),
dependencies or results with other problems.

 This artifact works as a step-by-step tutorial, but the benchmarks
set also work as reference tests for the
[OmpSs-2@Clusters](https://github.com/bsc-pm/ompss-2-cluster-releases)
programming model implementation.

The whole artifact comprises steps and instructions described in the
**Overview.pdf** document and implemented in the **artifact.sh** bash
script to simplify the user initial experience.  The fundamental parts
are:

1. Build and install
   [Nanos6-Cluster](https://github.com/bsc-pm/nanos6-cluster) and the
   [Mercurium](https://github.com/bsc-pm/mcxx) source to source
   compiler
4. Build the nanos6 benchmarks set
   [nanos6-cluster-benchmarks](https://github.com/Ergus/nanos-cluster-benchmarks)
   and the MPI benchmarks set
   [MPI-benchmarks](https://github.com/Ergus/MPI_Benchmarks) to
   compare both implementations with a baseline.
5. Instructions to execute the benchmarks for reproducing the
   published results.
6. Instructions to process the output and construct the graphs
   automatically.

The provides set of [nanos6
benchmarks](https://github.com/Ergus/nanos-cluster-benchmarks) also
include different optimization versions and easily support different
external libraries, compilers and debugging options.

# Acknowledgements

This research has received funding from the European Unionâ€™s Horizon
2020/EuroHPC research and innovation programme under grant agreement
No 955606 (DEEP-SEA) and 754337 (EuroEXA). It is supported by the
Spanish State Research Agency - Ministry of Science and Innovation
(contract PID2019-107255GB and Ramon y Cajal fellowship
RYC2018-025628-I) and by the Generalitat de Catalunya (2017-SGR-1414).


# References
